### The Kansas City Gadds

My mother's full maiden name was Ellen Alice Parker. She was born in Kansas
City, Missouri on May 18th, 1909. My father, Wilfred Arthur Gadd, was born later
that same year, on December 15th, 1909, in Lebanon, Missouri.

My folks started dating after mom's boyfriend had been killed in an accident. My
dad was a friend of her boyfriend's before his death so my folks had known each
other before they started going out. My mother was living at 4210 Walnut Avenue
in Kansas City, Missouri. They waited for about a year before they were married
on February 23rd, 1930.

They moved into a tiny two room apartment above a grocery store on 24th and
Mersington in Kansas City. This was during the depression, and I was born in the
middle of this economic nightmare.

I was raised with my two brothers, Robert "Bob" Byron Gadd and Richard "Dick"
Floyd Gadd. We were close in age because there was only 2 1/2 years between the
three of us. Bob was born January 13th, 1933, and Dick on June 1st, 1934.

My first memories are of my mother, dad, two brothers and myself living in the
small apartment above the grocery store.

### Wilfred Arthur Gadd

My father was a tough and hard working man who had the discipline that was
needed to survive the depression. He was a man's man and I was proud to call him
my father. I have often said that my mother gave me my self worth while my dad
gave me most of my values.

Some of Dad's sayings were:

- "Whatever is worth doing is worth doing right"
- "Don't ever quit or give up"
- "Treat other people the way that you would like to be treated"
- "You can do almost anything if you will only try"
- "Your honor is at stake if you owe someone money or you have made a promise,
  so don't ever go back on your word"
- "You always pay your own way"
- "If you can't say something nice about someone, don't say anything at all."

He was a good family man and provider as I remember how hard he worked outside
in some bad weather conditions. I became very close to my dad when I was laying
brick as we rode to work each day and talked about everything. I admired the way
other men looked up to him, as he was respected by everyone. I loved my dad very
much!

### Ellen Alice Parker (Gadd)

My mother was a wonderful person and a fantastic lady whom I loved very much.
She was everything that anyone would want in a mother. Although she had a
limited education, she had such an understanding of how to build a child's
self-worth and how to make them feel loved. My confidence (some people have said
that I have too much) came from my mother as she told me and my brothers every
day that she loved us and that we were good sons.

Even though we didn't have a lot in the way of material things, we had so much
more because of this woman. There was nothing more important to my mother than
her family as she was always there for us. I can honestly say that I have never
met anyone that didn't like my mother as she treated everyone so well. I loved
my mother more than anyone could ever imagine and I wish that everybody could
have a "Mom" like her!

I was told that I was a real "momma's boy" as I wouldn't go anywhere without my
mother. During my first few days of kindergarten, I ran home after my mother,
telling her that I didn't want to stay at school. My mom said that I settled
down with my new classmates after the first week.

### Robert "Bob" Byron Gadd

My brother Bob was always very organized, and I knew that he would be successful
because of the way he made money from Dick and I and the other guys in the
neighborhood. He always had band aids and shoe strings for sale and he would
loan us money if we would pay him back at twice the amount that was borrowed.

For example, when anyone in the neighborhood would want an ice cream cone, Bob
would loan us five cents if we would pay him back 10 cents. It is hard to
believe in 1998, but ice cream cones actually cost five cents in the 1930s.

Bob also drove me crazy by policing the house for anything that I would do such
as taking a cola out of the fridge without asking my parents. Actually, the cola
was a Royal Crown Cola as this was a popular brand along with Nehi, Pepsi, Coke,
and 7UP. Nehi didn't survive over the years, but it was very popular in the
1940s. The first thing that Bob would do when he came into the house was to
check the cola case to see if there were any cold empties, and then proceed to
tell mom that "Gene had an R.C.!" I eventually learned to run hot water over the
cold bottle so that it was impossible to tell if I had enjoyed an R.C. Cola. Bob
could be a pain to live with, but he was a good brother.

Bob turned out to be a good basketball player in the service even though he
didn't play for several years while growing up because of his rheumatic fever.
Bob and I had a running feud for years while growing up about who was the better
baseball player in the major leagues. I liked Joe DiMaggio of the New York
Yankees and his favorite player was Stan Musial who played for the St. Louis
Cardinals. Both men today are in the Hall of Fame, but dad got tired of hearing
the argument and all of the statistics so we couldn't mention either man's name
especially at the dinner table.

Bob was so much more intelligent than the rest of us in the neighborhood which
was his special gift. He was a straight "A" student. As an adult, before he
started working for IBM, he scored in the superior range in his interview
testing. They hired him as a salesman in Kansas City.

### Richard "Dick" Floyd Gadd

Dick was a good younger brother although he was very independent and wanted to
do everything his own way. He had to put up with a lot being the youngest; he
was blamed for many things that happened while we were growing up.

I can remember when we were young boys that Dick would sometimes take the
spankings for Bob and me, as Dad would tell us that no one was going to bed
until one of us would confess about who had done a particular bad deed. We would
tell Dick that because he was younger, Dad wouldn't spank him as hard as he
would us. We would hope that Dick would say that he was guilty so we all could
go to bed.

My brothers and I used to put pads in our pants before Dad would spank us. My
mother had made each of us baseball sliding pads so we wouldn't scrape our hips
when we would slide into base. The best part is that our parents never found
out.

Dick started smoking when he was in elementary school because he could buy
cigarettes for a penny a piece at the Tivoli Movie Theater in our neighborhood.
I am so thankful that he has stopped smoking after all these years. I bugged him
by sending him newspaper clippings in the mail and harassed him about smoking
during my visits. I really can't take any credit for Dick not smoking since he
made the decision to quit by himself.

Dick would sing to the family at the dinner table when he was about 8 or 9 years
old. His favorite song started out, "Dicky has the muscles, he has everything"!
He kept all of us laughing and my folks always enjoyed his antics. Dick was a
lot of fun to be around when we were growing up. He had such a good personality
and everyone seemed to like him; he was especially popular with the girls.

Dick was a very good athlete. He was the shortstop on the All-Star Baseball Team
for 14 year olds. He even got to play at the Municipal Stadium in Kansas City
which is where the professional teams played. Dad and I laid off work so that we
could go to the games to watch him play. I believe that if Dick would have had
good coaching, he probably could have played professionally.

Dick was about two-and-a-half years younger than me so we didn't run around
together much until we were in the Navy.

My brothers and I fought like most brothers, but growing up, I was very proud of
both of them and never let anyone pick on them.

### The Best Parents

My mother would tell my brothers and I that she loved us several times each day,
although I don't really remember my dad ever telling me that he loved me. He
showed his love in many other ways such as the look on his face when I would do
something that would make him proud.

As a child, when I would get in trouble, my mom was quick to say that my dad
would punish me when he arrived home from work. I would always try to get my
mother to handle the punishment because I knew that she wouldn't spank me very
hard. I would try my best to make her laugh as I knew that gave me a chance and
maybe she wouldn't tell dad. Even so, my brothers and I were spanked whenever we
did something wrong until we were teenagers. It could be a slap or a belt
spanking, but I can honestly say that I never felt abused.

I always tell my children that I love them each time that I see them or talk
with them on the telephone. I'm not exactly sure why this is so important to me
because my seven children probably don't know or understand the difference.
