## Chapter 7 - U.S. Navy

### Enlisting and Boot Camp

I had been working construction for a little over a year when the Korean War
started in late 1950. In February of 1951, four of us went to enlist in the
United States Marines: my three buddies Bob Maize, Don Howey, and Dave Fricke,
and myself.

There were so many patriotic people enlisting that the Marines had a six month
waiting list. We decided to talk to the U.S. Navy recruiters only to find out
that they, also, had a six month wait. Nevertheless, we completed all the
paperwork which was conveniently the same for both services, since the Marines
are a branch of the Navy.

About six weeks later, the Navy informed us that if we could leave in two days,
they had an opening for three recruits (Bob Maize's references showed that he
had a police record so he wasn't eligible to enlist).

Don, Dave and I told everyone goodbye and, on April 10th, 1951, we were on our
way to San Diego for an eight week boot camp.

I was appointed as a squad leader during the first week at camp. This meant that
I had twelve guys reporting to me all the way through until graduation. This
responsibility was my first opportunity to be a leader and I found that this
experience gave me a lot of confidence.

I loved the marching in boots and the competition between the different
companies. Aside from when I played sports in college, I don't think I was ever
in better shape than during boot camp.

### Casualties of War

At the end of 1950, several guys that I met through Don and Dave (from East High
School) were killed in the battle of Chosin Reservoir in North Korea.

The Marines were surprised and surrounded by the Chinese and North Korean troops
and several divisions were wiped out.

These young men had enlisted in the Marines in early 1950. This was right around
the time that Dave, Bob and I had initially considered enlisting for the
marines, but Don asked us to wait for him as he was having a problem with his
girlfriend.

When the three of us heard the news about the East High boys being killed, we
knew that could have been us.

### On board the U.S.S. Philippine Sea

After boot camp, I reported to the U.S.S. Philippine Sea (CVA-47), an aircraft
carrier (Essex Class).

I was assigned to an aviation division aboard ship and given the job of side
cleaning while we were in port. This meant that my task was to hang over the
side of the ship to chip the rust off and then re-paint with navy gray.

We worked off of a hanging rope scaffold 56 feet above the water line. Several
guys freaked out! I was used to working off scaffolds that were 100 feet (10
stories) from the ground when I was laying brick so the height didn't bother me.

After only a few weeks of side cleaning, I was asked to try out for the
carrier's baseball team while some of their players were out on leave. Much to
my surprise, I made the team and was immediately relieved of my side cleaning
duties. This didn't make the officer in charge too happy. I was ecstatic.

I couldn't believe that while we waited to leave for overseas, my main job for
the next few months was to play baseball. We played mostly Navy and Marine bases
and other large ships. I was by no means the star of the team, as most of the
guys had already played college ball, but this would prove to be a great
experience for my future in baseball.

However, this temporary assignment didn't last long. Once we went overseas, I
began my job working with the flight crews.

While at sea, I also tried out for the ship's basketball team. While, in the
beginning, this team wasn't as talented as the baseball team, we did start
winning after a few new players transferred to the ship.

In 1953, my team won the 11th Naval District Championship for Ships at Sea. Once
again, this was a great experience for me since we had several players who had
played in college, including Bill Mercer, Fred Knox, and Jim Lucas.

### San Diego "Skyraiders"

Before the next season started, Bill Mercer and I were asked to try out for the
San Diego Naval Air Station basketball team, the "Skyraiders." Bill and I both
made the team and were assigned T.A.D. (Temporary Attachment of Duty) from the
carrier to Special Services. This was a unique assignment because Special
Services was where entertainers and athletes were stationed while away from
regular duty.

My job was to represent the San Diego Naval Air Base by playing basketball. From
the first day, I was in awe because the team had several college all-conference
players plus a second-team All-American from Kentucky named Bill Tussey. My
claim to fame was that he asked me to retrieve his basketballs during a national
free throw contest.

Bill chose me to "shag" his basketballs because I often stayed after practice to
rebound for him, and he had taught me how to give him a perfect chest-high
bounce pass after each shot.

Bill shot 400 free throws to get to the finals, taking 100 shots each round and
never making less than 97. For the final round, he won the championship by
making 98 out of 100 shots.

Even with all the talent we had on this team, I remember that we completed the
season in 2nd place. First place went to the Naval Training Station (NTC) who
had even more college players than us.

Our "Skyraiders" played several colleges and defeated them all, thanks in large
part to our depth. Our final game of the year was an exhibition against the
Harlem Globe Trotters.

### Support at Sea

My ship was in a naval task force which usually included two to three aircraft
carriers, 10 to 12 destroyers, and either a battleship or two heavy cruisers.

Our carrier and our air wing served over three years off the coast of Korea,
supporting the ground troops. This support primarily came from our planes making
bombing runs from early each morning to late in the evening.

Many days we worked 12 to 16 hours, but we still had a warm, dry place to sleep,
which was much better than conditions for the ground troops. This went on seven
days a week, and I remember losing track of what day it was until I heard the
church call on Sunday.

### Trouble in the Ranks

Many men who were raised without discipline had trouble in the service. They
wanted to make their own decisions, such as staying on shore after their liberty
had expired. This was called A.W.O.L. (absent without leave).

I would see these guys in the brig (military jail) for 30 to 60 days at a time.
Eventually, several of them were given a dishonorable discharge. I always felt
sorry for these men as some of them didn't have a clue about how to stay out of
trouble.

One particular guy I met on my ship used some terrible judgement. He was running
the ship's stores, which were crew's stores where shipmen could buy things while
out to sea. He had a system where he charged each customer an extra five cents
for their supplies. He would also sell cigarettes to the Japanese for twice
their retail amount.

In the end, he probably stole several thousand dollars from the military, which
led to him being prosecuted. He was sentenced to serve 15 to 20 years in a
federal prison. Apparently, the U.S. Navy Intelligence Service had been watching
him for several months.

### Marriage

I married Marilyn Sue Reese after my first overseas tour. We had dated during
our senior year of high school in 1949 until we broke up the following year.

As I left for the Navy, she had been dating another guy, so I didn't think there
would be a chance of us getting back together.

However, when I came home on leave in 1951, I heard that she had broken off her
relationship with this other man. We reconnected and quickly became engaged.

I remember only having a five day leave before going back overseas so we decided
that we would be married during my next leave which would be more than a year
away. I came home in August, 1952, and we were married.

Before my final tour, Marilyn came with me to live in the Navy housing that was
available in San Francisco. This was a fun time as several couples from the
carrier were also living in the same housing.

I remember that none of us had any money to go out so we mostly stayed home and
played cards. My navy pay was $80.00 a month ($40 per pay day). When I made
First Class Petty Officer, that promotion, along with my additional allowances,
got me to about $120.00 each pay day.

The living arrangement in San Francisco only lasted about three months. Our
carrier was going back to the Far East. For the next two years, Marilyn and I
were together only about two or three months each year until I was discharged
in 1955.

### Serving with my Brothers

I served as a plane director for two tours aboard the carrier. Before my final
cruise to the Far East, I was promoted to head director. Since I was a Second
Class Petty Officer at the time and the head director position required a rank
of First Class Petty Officer, I was made an acting First Class Petty Officer.

At this time, my youngest brother Dick transferred from his ship, the cruiser
U.S.S. Rochester, to my carrier so we could serve together during my final year
overseas.

Shortly after I was promoted to acting First Class Petty Officer, Dick was
assigned to Hangar Deck Control. Hangar Deck Control directed which planes came
down the three elevators and which aircraft needed to be sent to the flight
deck. My job was to follow their instructions exactly. This meant Dick and I
worked directly together, with him telling me where the planes needed to be
spotted.

Even though I was in charge of over eighty men, and outranked my brother, he
loved to give me orders over the PA system. His instructions always had me
laughing because he would tell me things like, "Can't you get your men to move
any faster?" or "Do you want me to come down and show you how to do your job?" I
would tell him that he had better be careful or I'd send him back to the U.S.S.
Rochester.

I can't repeat some of the other things we said to each other, but we had a lot
of fun. This constant teasing went on from early morning to late evening. Dick
helped me tremendously since I was under pressure to get the planes on the
flight deck at exactly the right time, and working with my brother made a
difficult job much more enjoyable.

Dick and I had our bunk beds right beside each other in our sleeping quarters.
The bunks were four high so we were sleeping right against the overhead ceiling.
This meant we had more privacy than most of the guys. This arrangement was also
nice because we could make sure that the other guy would not oversleep when we
were working those long hours.

The only thing that could have made my time overseas even better would have been
having my other brother, Bob, aboard the carrier, running the print shop as he
did on his seaplane tender, the U.S.S. Pine Island. The three of us did get
together in Japan and the Philippines when our ships were in port at the same
time.

I can honestly say I was never worried about danger to myself, but I did worry
about Dick when he transferred to the ship. I was a pretty protective big
brother.

### Losing my Mother

My most difficult time in the Navy was when my mother passed away while I was
overseas.

She had a stroke in 1952 which I'm sure was the result of her having severe
asthma for most of her life. Chapter of me also wondered if my mother's illness was
partially due to the fact that all three of her boys were away from home,
serving in the military at the same time.

The carrier that Dick and I were on had just arrived back in Yokosuka, Japan. We
had returned to base after being off the coast of Korea for about eight weeks.
Ships rotated back to Japan to pick up supplies and fuel and also to allow the
crew and squadrons the opportunity to get some R&R (rest and relaxation).

My brother Dick and I were notified of our mother's death by the ship's
chaplain. Even though my mother had been very sick, I was shocked. I couldn't
believe that she was gone so young, and with so much life left to live.

To make things worse, Dick and I were told that due to the war, only one of us
could go home for the burial. I can't thank my brother Dick enough for telling
me that I should be the one to go home.

She died May 1st, 1953, at the age of only 42, just a couple of weeks before her
birthday on May 18th. I was only 21.

My mother is buried several miles east of Kansas City at Floral Hills Cemetery
in Raytown, Missouri.

### Becoming a Father While at Sea

During my third tour in the navy, Marilyn and I welcomed our first born, Michael
Eugene, into the world. While I was not there in Kansas City for his birth on
September 8th, 1954, it was still a very special moment for me to become a
father.

### Discharged

I was given an Honorable Discharge on March 18th, 1955. This meant that I had
served 3 years, 11 months, and 8 days in the Navy (a few weeks shy of 4 years
total).

While I was in the process of being discharged, I was told that if I stayed in
the Navy, I would be able to pick any station or ship in the fleet to serve on
if I re-signed for another two years. I was somewhat tempted as I really wanted
to see Europe, but I was now married and the father of a son.

This offer was available to everyone at the time, but I was ready to get on with
the next phase of my life.

### Boys to Men

Looking back on my time in the U.S. Navy, I realize that I left home as a 19
year old boy and I came back as a 23 year old man.

The Navy didn't care if I went to chow (mealtime), or if I had a good night's
sleep, as long as I did my job. If you followed orders and stayed out of
trouble, you would get along fine.
