## Part 4 - The Wonder Years (Living at 28th and Wenzel)

### Shared Couches and R.C. Cola

When I was about 5 years old, my folks rented a small one bedroom house at 28th
and Wenzel which meant we now had a backyard to play in. My folks had the only
bedroom, but the sofa in the front room was fine for us three boys. We would
sleep two at the top and one at the bottom. My brothers and I never even thought
about having our own beds as we were all raised sleeping on the sofa.

I remember when Great Grandma Betz came to visit and she had to sleep on the
sofa bed with me and my two brothers. This made four people sharing a small
sofa, so she also had someone's feet in her face. I don't remember anyone having
any real problem with this sleeping arrangement even though my great grandmother
was in her late 70s. She had been raised during difficult times so she never
complained about sleeping on a hard sofa with three small boys. My folks always
looked forward to her visits.

We had a family ritual of sitting on the front porch in the summer having an
R.C. cola before bedtime. I should say that our R.C. was really one half of a
bottle for us three boys and mom, but dad had a whole bottle for himself. I
couldn't wait to grow up so I could have a whole bottle of R.C. whenever I
wanted it.

Having a cola together in the evening was a great way to have family time
talking about what had happened during the day. This type of family time is much
more difficult today, mainly due to the invention of the television. TV wasn't
widely available until the mid-to-late 1940s and even then, many families could
not afford to buy one (my folks were finally able to buy a small black and white
television in 1951 when I was 20 and in the Navy).

Besides my family, my dog, Sugar, was the most important thing in my life at
this time. She followed my brothers and I everywhere we went.

### The Great Depression

From 1929 through the end of the 1930s, families were losing all of their
savings, and many lost their homes and their jobs. This was during the times
that the banks were failing, a period of economic turmoil known today as "The
Great Depression".

Being raised during the peak of this catastrophe was so much different from the
way it is today; most of us had very little money and had to watch every penny.
You didn't buy anything that you didn't need. This was a concept taught to us at
a very early age.

My father was a journeyman brick mason during the depression, but because there
wasn't a lot of construction, he was looking for another position. As mentioned
before, his brother-in-law, Kenneth Ward, found dad a part time job as a paint
mixer at Seidlitz Paint Co., where Uncle Kenneth was working as a purchasing
agent. This hurt my dad's pride because his sister, Aunt Doris, would always
remind him that they had helped get him employed. On the other hand, my father
felt he was fortunate to have a job during the depression when so many people
were out of work.

Even though my father wasn't working at his trade, I remember that we all were
very happy during this early period of my life. This happiness was because my
mother and father spent a lot of time with my brothers and myself and our home
was a fun place to live. Even though I'm sure that my mother and father were
worried about being able to provide for their sons, I don't remember as a child
having any real concerns.

I remember Christmas Day during these years as being very special to our family.
Children today wouldn't understand that it was pretty typical, at least in my
family, to receive only one gift on Christmas morning. To be honest, I felt
pretty lucky that I had received a present at all.

I also don't remember having a birthday party until I was 13 years old. This was
obviously a very special occasion, as I was now in my teens. I might be wrong,
but I can't recall my brothers ever having a birthday party.

Today's children have parties most every year, but things were different in the
30's and 40's. We knew that we were loved, but parties and presents were not usually in the budget.

We learned the value of money starting at a very young age. I once saved for
over a year to buy a second hand bike which I found advertised in the newspaper.

### What's for Dinner?

Meals were also different when I was growing up. Dinners were often a lot of
potatoes and bread. If there was meat on the table, dad had first choice because
he was working hard in construction.

The cost of potatoes was probably pretty inexpensive because my mother would
offer a different potato dish for each evening's meal (mashed potatoes was my
favorite).

I remember once when my cousin Bill Ward was visiting for the weekend and he
made a big deal about our family eating a lot of potatoes and bread without
having meat. I don't remember ever being concerned about not having meat for
dinner, and looking back, I'm sure that my mother knew that we would do just
fine without always having a meat dish.

Our family financial status must have improved when I was going to high school,
because we seemed to have meat at almost every meal. My dad had steady work
since there was a lot of construction after World War II ended.

It's hard to believe now, but I don't ever remember having a lettuce salad when
I was growing up, as most women in our neighborhood would prepare a carrot jello
salad for Sunday's dinner.

### Polio

Polio was a disease that had a large impact on everyone living in the 1930s and
1940s.

Parents didn't really know what to believe which made most of them paranoid
about what they would allow their children to do. Due to its ability to spread
through contaminated water, we were sometimes not permitted to go swimming.

I remember that many people were paralyzed from the waist down, with some
requiring crutches for the rest of their lives. There were others that had
complete respiratory paralysis and had to live in an iron lung until, hopefully,
they recovered.

### Neighborhood Baseball

When I was in the 3rd and 4th grade, I would always want to play baseball,
basketball and football with the older boys in the neighborhood at 28th and
Wenzel. Most of the guys were two to three years older. I was relatively small
and hardly ever included (unless they needed an extra player). The good news is
that I learned a lot about sports either by watching or during my limited
playing time.

I remember receiving a new baseball for Christmas and taking it outside to play
(hopefully in a game), but the older guys still weren't interested. They had no
problem using my ball, though.

When I was called to supper, I asked if I could have my baseball back, but was
told that they would bring it by the house after the game. When I told my dad
what happened, he made me go back out to the game and tell the guys that I had
to have my ball. This was probably my first real confrontation, but it wasn't
all that difficult, because when I mentioned my dad, they didn't hesitate in
giving me my ball back.

### Boys will be Boys

When I was in the 3rd grade, and we were still living at 28th and Wenzel, my
brothers and I would walk to Greenwood Grade School down 28th street. The
neighborhood was divided with the White families living on the north side of
27th Street and the Black families on the south side.

Our daily walk to school took us through this divided area. One day, several
Black kids threw rocks at us from atop a small hill along our route. We ran away
upset and angry about what had happened.

On another day, we decided that we would get even with them. We each gathered up
a handful of rocks and waited for these kids to come up the hill. They started
to climb the hill and we let them have it with every rock that we had
stockpiled. The boys retreated but, before we could get to school, several
fathers of these kids started chasing us.

We finally arrived at school and I thought we were safe; but the principal and
one of the dads came into my classroom along with my brother Dick. I was so
scared when I saw the principal and the men talking to my teacher.

Dick had been picked out of his classroom because they had seen his birthmark
which was a two inch circle of white hair at the back of his head. His nickname
growing up was "cotton tail".

This was my first trip to the principal's office. Bob and I never let Dick
forget that he had squealed on his two brothers. Dad gave all of us a spanking
when we arrived home from school because the principal had called to tell my
folks what had happened. If I'm being honest, the spanking was worth it because
those boys never bothered us again.

### WW2 Era

What I remember most about the house on Wenzel was walking to school during the
war on those cold, snowy days. We were never given rides to school during
wartime because Dad had traded in the family car for a promise of a new
automobile. Many families did this to support the military effort and also
because rationing of things like gasoline and rubber made it difficult and
expensive to drive.

The dealer was pretty dishonest as Dad didn't receive the car until about 1944.
By then the war was almost over, and we had already moved to another house in
1942 that was closer to school.

I don't know how my folks did their shopping or ran errands during this time
period; today, no one would be able to function without an automobile. Dad had
to make arrangements for a ride to work each day and mom had to do the same
while she was working at the Lake City Defense Plant during the war.

Prior to the war, the first car that I remember was our family's 1929 Model A
Ford. Only two people could sit up front, so us three boys would sit in the
rumble seat that was outside at the back of the car. After that, the next
automobile that I can remember was a 1941 Pontiac (Dad's favorite car auto maker
when we were growing up).

We were very fortunate during World War II that dad was on a draft board where
the majority of men were in their teens and twenties. Dad, at 32 years old when
the war started, was classified 3A, which meant he was qualified to serve, but
the younger men who were 1A would be drafted first.

I know that not being in the military was hard on dad as almost everyone at the
time served in the war, but this was a blessing to our family to have my father
home while we were growing up. Because dad wasn't in the service, he made sure
that he did a lot of work at the Lake City Defense Plant.

There was a lot of rationing during the war because the U.S. Armed Forces had
first priority on all supplies. Some of the more common items rationed were
gasoline, tires, Crisco (cooking shorting), nylons, sugar, soaps and shoes. You
couldn't even buy gasoline without using your rationing stamps.

We also had all kinds of collection drives for the war effort with some of the
items being scrap iron, aluminum, grease, and old tires. Many people in our
neighborhood had "Victory Gardens" where you could grow your own vegetables and
fruit.

Everyone would pitch in to do anything that they could to help the war effort.
It was a time when people loved their country and patriotism was popular.

### Move to Cedar Rapids

I attended Greenwood Elementary School from Kindergarten through 6th grade, with
one small break in the middle.

While my folks did their best to make sure that we didn't have to change schools
in the midst of moving three times, there was one exception. When I was in the
3rd grade, we moved temporarily to Cedar Rapids, Iowa for about seven months,
where dad could find work.

The bricklayers in Kansas City were on strike so we lived in a motel with
another family for the entire time we were in Iowa. This move meant that we went
to a different elementary school for almost a full school year.

I remember that we lived outside of town in a rural area and that the kids at
the school were pretty rough. I don't think that I was ever in as many fights
during a school year like I was when I attended the Howe Grade School in Cedar
Rapids. I was thrilled when we moved back to Kansas City so I could reunite with
all of my friends at Greenwood Elementary School.
