Eugene Wilfred Gadd, age 80, went to be with the Lord on September 22, 2012.
Eugene was born to Wilfred and Ellen Gadd on December 15, 1931 at Trinity
Lutheran Hospital in Kansas City, MO.

### Family

Gene is survived by his adoring wife **Mitzie**, his seven children: **Mike
Gadd** (Anne), **Cathy Perotti** (John), **Patty Santin**, **Rebecca Walker**
(Jon), **Jeff Gadd** (Jennifer), **Kevin Gadd** (E'Lese), **Brett Gadd**
(Ashlee), and his ~~ten~~ twelve grandchildren: Rachael, Emily, Eric, Cameron,
Brian, Kelsey, Austin, Jason, Jessica, and Everett (plus Carson in 2014 and
Presley in 2019).

He was the oldest of three boys; he leaves brother **Bob** behind (Overland
Park, KS), and was preceded in death by brother **Dick**. Gene was also cared
for by in-laws Bob and Anne Turner.

---

### Military Service

An accomplished **Eagle Scout**, Gene served in the Navy during the Korean War
from **1951-1955** as a plane director on the **U.S.S. Philippine Sea
(CVA-47)**.

While on the ship, Gene tried out for basketball and baseball, and was selected
for both teams. He was also very proud to be chosen for the **1954 San Diego
Naval Air Station "Skyraiders" basketball team**.

---

### Education & Career

After his honorable discharge, he continued playing basketball and baseball for
the **University of Missouri at Kansas City**, where he graduated with a
business degree in 1961.

Gene was hired by **Burroughs Wellcome** as a Pharmaceutical Sales
Representative, where he worked his way up to District Sales Manager of the Bay
Area and Hawaii in 1969. His district became the **number one in sales** for the
pharmaceutical division in the entire country. He retired in 1994.

---

### Coaching Legacy

Known as **"Coach"**, Gene was passionate about working with young men and
women. Over the span of forty years, he coached **more than eighty different
teams** in basketball, baseball, soccer, and football, including several
all-star teams.

Gene served on the **Valley Christian School Board** and became President of the
board in 1990.

---

### Remembering Gene

Gene will always be remembered as a loving husband, hard worker, loyal friend,
and an on-the-floor type of dad. When Gene spoke, people listened. He was
confident, likable, protective of his family, and above all else, **a faithful
man of God**. Gene always told his family "If anything ever happens to me, just
know that I've had a good life." Gene leaves behind many friends and a huge
family, but he had a heart big enough to hold all of us.

---

### Memorial Service

A memorial service was held on **Saturday, September 29, 2012 at 1:00pm** at
**Valley Christian Church**, 7500 Inspiration Drive Dublin, CA.
