---
slug: "chapter-5-mersington"
title: "Mersington"
subtitle: "A neighborhood that raised us"
summary: "Life in Mersingtonâ€”neighbors, routines, and the places that became landmarks of our family story."
thumbnail: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1501183638710-841dd1904471?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
---

## Chapter 5 - Mersington

### Return to Greenwood

When I was in the 5th grade, my folks made a big decision to purchase a home at
26th and Mersington. Dad said that he was tired of paying rent, but the house
was selling for over $2,500. After coming out of the depression, this was a big
decision as brickmasons didn't always have steady work, and dad wasn't sure he
could handle the monthly payment.

This doesn't sound like a lot of money, but a bricklayer only made about $10
dollars a week in 1942, which usually would be less than $500 a year. Prices
were a lot different as you could buy a hamburger for a nickel, a new car for
$300 to $400, and a haircut was about 10 cents.

Our new home was very small; there were two small bedrooms upstairs and a very
tiny bathroom. Downstairs we had a small living room and a dining room and a
little kitchen. Although the house was small, we felt like we were living in a
mansion as this was the largest home that we had ever lived in.

The good news for my brothers and I was that we would be returning to Greenwood
Elementary School and we now had a bedroom that we shared, each of us with our
own twin bed.

### 26th and Mersington

The house at 26th and Mersington was my favorite home. The address was 3907 East
26th Street, and when I think of Kansas City, I always think of this place. This
is where we lived when I completed elementary school, and also where I attended
junior high and high school.

I have many pleasant memories of this home and it's where I was living when I
enlisted in the U.S. Navy. Whenever we visit Kansas City, I always like to go
back and see the neighborhood; even though the house was torn down several years
ago. Our church, Mersington Heights, was only a block away and Duff's Market was across the street from the church.

### Church

My family attended Mersington Heights Evangelical Church at 25th and Mersington
which was only one block from our home. We went to Sunday School and Church
every Sunday. On Wednesday nights, there was a potluck dinner and prayer
meeting.

I maintained a perfect attendance record for over eight years which meant I
sometimes even went to Church when I was sick. My folks would try to make me
stay home, but I didn't want to ruin my attendance record. During this time in
my life I didn't have a personal relationship with the Lord (more on that
later).

Most of our family friends were from our church. My folks would do things with
several of these couples which included bowling in several leagues and usually a
party on Saturday night.

My mother and father's parties would include playing cards or board games and
drinking cokes. My parents didn't drink nor did any of their friends.

My brothers and I would usually go to one of the neighborhood movie theaters
during these parties. The movie tickets cost 13 cents for kids under 12 and 35
cents for 12 and older.

### Neighborhood Friends

Jerry Sullivan and Hugh Braden were my best neighborhood friends- we did
everything together. The neighborhood at 26th and Mersington had nine boys in
five houses (the Gadds: Gene, Bob and Dick; the Bradens: Bob, Hugh and Dick;
Jerry Sullivan, Bob Parker and Gene Guilliams).

The nine of us played whatever sport was in season. There were also two older
boys, brothers Jack and Joe Harrison. They were both good high school athletes
who taught us everything about sports. They ruled the neighborhood. We played
outside every night after school as well as every weekend.

We made up a lot of games such as throwing a tennis ball against the front steps
(which were high because each yard had a terrace). To practice baseball, one kid
would pitch while the other would try to hit the ball with a cut off broomstick.
This really helped our batting eye and also our throwing arms as we pitched the
tennis ball each day all summer.

We had a neighborhood baseball team called the Mersington Midgets. Occasionally,
we competed against other neighborhoods.

We played basketball in Bob Parker's back yard as he had a goal hanging on the
garage. During football season we played touch football in the street and tackle
football in the vacant lot next door to Jerry's house. We also used to go to the
park and play either tackle or touch football as a team.

Since moving to California, I have probably only seen the Bradens three or four
times and Bob Parker only twice. I have lost track of Gene Guilliams and Jerry
Sullivan.

### Don't Break my Plate

My father had a temper at times and demanded respect from his children. He
wouldn't hesitate to spank us if we didn't mind him. I stood up to my father
once, acting as if I might hit him. He immediately told me that I would have to
leave the house if I even acted like I was going to swing at him. "You'd be okay
after missing one meal," he said, "but you'd be pretty hungry after missing your
second." I never doubled up my fist to my dad again!

### Other Activities

My brothers and I also participated in Boy Scouts of America (BSA), Church
basketball league, and 3 & 2 baseball which was a lot like "Little League"
today.

After many years of hard work in BSA, Bob, Dick and I each attained the rank of
Eagle Scout. This made our parents very proud. My mother always wore three small
eagles on her lapel in recognition of this achievement.

When I was an adult living in Sacramento, I was the Cubmaster for the Cub Pack
that my oldest son, Mike, had joined. This was my way of giving back to BSA for
all they had done for me and the impact they had on my life when I was a young
boy.

Church basketball was a lot of fun with most of the guys from my neighborhood
playing on my team. It was a great way for us to get rid of our excess energy.

Minute Circle was a neighborhood recreation center which in many ways was like a
Boys & Girls Club from today. We played baseball, basketball and six-man
football for Minute Circle with many of our friends from school.

### A Tragic Story

When I was about 11 years old, Bob and I had the scare of our lives.

Without telling our folks, we went on a small journey to the Blue River, several
miles east of Kansas City. A teenager who we didn't know had a motor boat and
gave both of us several rides on the river.

After several trips, when we were ready to leave, we asked him to go back over
to the other side of the river to get our shoes. He was on his way back with our
shoes when his boat started to sink. He couldn't swim and started yelling for us
to help him.

We both felt so helpless watching this high schooler go under as neither of us
could swim. I remember how frustrated I was when we were trying to get cars to
stop on the highway so we could get someone to help us. I stood in the middle of
the road hoping that someone would stop, but people would just keep driving.

My folks made sure that we both learned to swim that summer, but I had
nightmares for years from watching this teenager drown and not being able to
save him.

### Bob's Rheumatic Fever

When I was about 12 years old and Bob was about 10, he was diagnosed with
rheumatic fever, a disease which could have injured his heart if he exercised
too much. For this reason, my parents did not allow Bob to play any games with
us.

We had strict orders that we were not to touch him; no matter what he said or
did while he was sick. Bob took full advantage of the situation.

I will never forget the day, when Bob was about 12 or 13 years old, and mom
brought Bob home from the doctor with good news that he was well and could do
anything that Dick and I were doing.

I questioned her about Bob being able to play ball, or even perhaps fighting if
he had to. Again, she repeated that Bob was cleared for everything.

I proceeded to hit him and knock him off the back porch stairs.

You see, the last few years had been hard on all of us, not just Bob. While I
was genuinely relieved for him that he was over his sickness, I just couldn't
wait to hit him because of his sharp tongue that had gone unchecked for years.
