---
slug: "chapter-6-adolescence"
title: "Adolescence"
subtitle: "Becoming and belonging"
summary: "High school years, friendships, teams, and the everyday moments that tested limits and built character."
thumbnail: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1502877338535-766e1452684a?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
---

## Chapter 6 - Adolescence

### Segregation in Kansas City

Race relations in the 1930s and 1940s were not great. Black and White children
didn't attend school together and Black kids would be bussed to another school.
Actually, Black and White families didn't really communicate with each other,
nor did they live in the same neighborhoods.

Black families could only live in a certain area defined by cross streets which,
in our neighborhood, was from 28th Street to 31st Street. White families lived
from 27th Street on down and 32nd Street on up on the other side.

As children we didn't know whether segregation of the different races was right
or wrong since we were raised in that environment. When I became an adult, I
felt that there should be equal opportunity for everyone. I have tried over the
years with my seven children to let them know that we are all the same in God's
eyes.

### Hard Work

When I was growing up, I had a lot of different jobs. My mother believed her
sons should be working so we could make our own money, and most of my jobs were
as a result of her making contact with a business.

My brothers and I began our careers selling Liberty magazines for 5 cents when I
was 8 or 9 years old. That would make Bob 7 or 8 and Dick about 5 or 6 years
old. We would go to large apartments or dad would take us to the Bricklayers
Union Hall. I did pretty well, except that some people would say they would
rather buy from Dick because he was so cute.

After selling Liberty Magazines, I worked at Eastman's Drug Store as a delivery
boy which was my first real job. I would guess that I was probably about 10 or
11 years old.

One day, while out delivering cough syrup on 28th street, I was robbed. A man
jumped out from behind a car and grabbed the handlebars of my bike. He told me
to give him all the money that I had on me. I didn't get hurt as I only had a
few dollars so I could make change, but I was afraid that somebody else would
rob me as most of my deliveries were at night.

The pharmacist, Mrs. Eastman, told me that they would have to take the money
that was stolen out of my pay which upset my folks and I wasn't very happy
either. If you broke a bottle of cough syrup or any other medicine, this amount
would also be deducted out of your pay. This taught me to be very careful with
glass products!

We also worked as golf caddies at Blue Hills Country Club. I was in the 7th
grade, Bob in the 6th grade and Dick in the 5th grade. My brothers and I would
have to take two buses to get to Blue Hills which was more than an hour away.

We always rode the bus hopeful that we would be able to caddy so we could make
some money. This was a real awakening as the older boys would bully us younger
guys, and we weren't ever allowed to caddie until the high schoolers had all
been hired.

My brother Dick was finally able to get a caddying job one day when there wasn't
anyone else left in the caddie shack. Unfortunately, he was sent back to the
club house after the 2nd hole because he couldn't carry the clubs without
dragging the golf bag on the ground.

We were paid $1.25 for a single and $2.00 for carrying a double, which is two
bags. The golfers would also sometimes buy you a coke at the 10th hole if you
were lucky. At the end of the round, we would always hope that the golfers would
give us a tip if we did a good enough job.

From caddying, I was able to earn enough money to pay for scout camp at Camp
Osceola each year, which was exactly $21.00. For two weeks, we swam and worked
towards earning our merit badges. We had to earn so many merit badges for each
scouting award (Star, Life, and Eagle); this camp was the perfect place to
achieve these goals.

We stayed in large tents, usually with most of the guys in the neighborhood in
the same tent. We went on nature hikes and we had swimming races between the
different scout troops. While it was fun and exciting, I remember being very
home sick.

Another place where I worked while growing up was at Rockhill Bowling Alley. My
job was setting pins, which is a lost art today, as we would work two alleys at
the same time, straddling the petition between the lanes with our legs high in
the air. We would first pick up the pins that were knocked down and then send
the ball back to the bowler.

One time, when I was new, I sent the ball back before picking up the pins. After
setting the pins, as I looked up, I saw the ball coming right at me. After this
near miss I always sent the ball back after the pins were secured.

We earned 10 cents per line (10 frames or one complete game). This meant that we
made a dollar every 10 games.

I liked caddying better than setting pins because I was guaranteed at least
$1.25 if I was picked to work.

I also worked at a neighborhood grocery store called Duff's Market. Similar to
the pharmacy, my job was to make deliveries on a bicycle with a large basket in
the front for carrying groceries.

Duff was a hard man to work for as he was never satisfied with anything I did.
If anything would go wrong, I just wouldn't say anything about it. After
something went wrong, and I was running late, I would pump the bike as fast as I
could go, but he would always say, "Gadd, what took you so long?"

Once, when I was delivering a large order, and just as I was turning into the
driveway of this home, the bananas fell out of the basket and I rolled over
them. I told the lady that I would bring her back some more bananas during my
next delivery.

As I was heading out with my next bags of groceries, Duff noticed the extra
bananas. He said the new delivery didn't have any bananas to be delivered, so he
removed them from the basket. I wanted to tell him what happened, but I was
afraid that I was going to lose my job.

I later snuck some bananas out of the back door, but I felt so guilty for taking
them that I confessed to my dad. The next day, he made me go to Duff and explain
the situation, and to my surprise he was very nice about it.

I always felt that he treated me better after this incident. Years later, after
I was married, I walked into a small neighborhood market and there was Duff
behind the counter. He was the owner. I was pleasantly surprised at how nice of
a man he was to talk to now that I was an adult. I couldn't believe that I had
been so afraid of him when I was a young teenager.

In high school, I had a weekend job at Safeway. This was during my junior and
senior years so I would have been about 16 years old. I would start in the
produce department opening crates and cutting produce. Then, the checkers would
call me to the front when I was needed to box or sack and carry groceries out to
the cars. I was making $5 a day which allowed me to save enough money for dates
and other teenage things.

### Missing the Beat

I went to Central Junior High School for my 7th grade (1944-45) and freshman
year (1945-46). Eighth grade was not available at Central (and many other
district schools) until after I had completed my freshman year.

Before junior high, in the 6th grade, I started playing the drums at Greenwood
Elementary School because my cousin Jim Simpson played and he could give us free
lessons. Jim taught us drum rolls so that Bob and I could play in a drum and
bugle corps. It was fun at the beginning, but I didn't know how to read music so
I soon became very uncomfortable.

By the time I reached Central Junior High, I was 4th chair in the orchestra.
When I saw how bad the girl was playing the drums in the 3rd chair, I realized
that I must be pretty awful if I was playing behind her.

It was also a pain to have to carry the drum back and forth from school to home
so Bob could have it for practice at Greenwood. I really wasn't enjoying drums
any longer so I asked my folks if I could quit.

Dick had started violin lessons but, like the drums, this attempt at learning to
play an instrument didn't last very long.

The junior high memory that stands out the most for me was the ending of World
War II.

### Central High School

I then attended Central Senior High School. Originally built in 1884, with my
building added in 1912, it was the first ever high school established in Kansas
City. It was also the high school of Walt Disney.

I remember going out for Junior Varsity football my sophomore year in 1947. I
weighed about 120 pounds.

I asked the coach if I could play against the varsity in practice as I seldom
saw any action on the J.V. team. I thought this scrimmage would be a good
experience and maybe the coach would be impressed by the way that I played.

My football career ended when I tackled a varsity running back several yards in
the backfield and he proceeded to drag me for a first down. I was embarrassed
and my friends started kidding me.

The coach told me that I just needed to gain some weight. I tried eating a lot
of ice cream whenever I could but I just couldn't put on enough pounds. So, for
the next two years, I decided to concentrate on baseball and basketball.

In high school, I also rushed for the Central Jefferson Club. This club was one
of several literary societies at school. To be eligible for "The Jefferson's",
you had to have a minimum 3.0 grade point average, be nominated by other
members, and had to attend rush. Looking back, I feel it was more of a
popularity contest (but at the time it was a lot of fun).

I had my first date when I was a Jefferson. Her name was Patty Rose, a Delphian
(our sister club). We went on a hayride together and I had my first real kiss.
Even though she was very nice, I wasn't ready to start dating.

In my junior year, I tried out for the Junior Varsity (J.V.) basketball team.
Unfortunately, I was cut on the last day of tryouts. This was a big
disappointment. I decided to work on my game to improve my skills for the next
season.

My game did improve, and I was selected to play Varsity basketball my senior
year. That was such an honor to make varsity at a high school like Central which
had an enrollment of over 2,000 students.

I was very pleased that during the first part of the season, I was receiving
more playing time than several of the guys who had played varsity the previous
year. However, this joy didn't last long. I received an "F" in my chemistry
class in January which made me ineligible for the rest of the season.

This was my biggest disappointment in high school, and is the reason I have
preached the importance of working and studying hard in school to all seven of
my children.

Baseball was my best sport (by far). As a junior, I tried out for the high
school’s American Legion team (high schools in Kansas City didn't have varsity
baseball at the time).

Out of more than 30 guys trying out, I was one of 15 selected for the team. I
was also one of the youngest on the team. I had a lot of fun, even though I
wanted to play 3rd base but ended up in the outfield. As one of the younger
guys, I batted near the bottom of the line up.

Our team had amazing talent and easily won the league. I have often wondered
what happened to most of these excellent ballplayers.

I don't ever remember my folks missing a single one of my games! This meant a
lot to me, even though, at times, I would be embarrassed because the other
parents seemed to hardly ever be in the stands. The guys on the team would kid
me and give me a hard time, but, to be honest, I loved my parents being there to
support me.

I'm sure that this is one of the reasons that I have always done everything in
my power to attend each of my children's games or other functions while they
were growing up.

I was anxious to learn to drive when I had my 16th birthday. My dad would let me
practice with our 1947 Pontiac. I don't remember having to take a driving test,
although I did take an oral test at the Missouri DMV office in downtown Kansas
City.

While laying brick in the summer after my junior year, I was able to buy a 1930
Chevy for $165. I drove this car during my senior year in high school. Once it
ran out of gas, I would find a way to earn a few dollars to get back on the
road.

Whenever my buddies were riding with me, I would ask them to chip in some money
for fuel. I remember going to the filling station and asking for $1.00 worth of
gas and 50 cents worth of oil. The oil wouldn't be new as it was drained from
other cars, but it worked fine for me.

I would take four or five guys to school each day from our neighborhood, which
was a lot of fun. You could stack people into the car since there weren't belts
to worry about. It was probably safer to drive back then, because the cars were
built very solid. Today, most modern automobiles are built with a lot of plastic
or fiberglass, and they often don't hold up, even in a minor accident.

### Popular Sayings

Growing up, you'd often hear somebody say "A slip of the lip will sink a ship."
This saying was all over billboards showing a ship sinking with a man or women
holding their index finger to their lips.

If you were excited about something you would say "Holy Cow", or if you were
feeling good about yourself you were the "Cat's Meow." Likewise, if you were
attracted to a member of the opposite sex you would say "Hub Ba, Hub Ba". These
expressions seem pretty silly now, but they were quite popular in the 1940s.

### Too Close of a Call

When I was about 17 years old, our family had a frightening experience. One
evening, we received a phone call that Dick and several of his buddies had been
in a serious car wreck across the state line at Wyandotte County Park in Kansas.
We were told that several boys had been killed.

We were so scared, thinking that Dick was one of the fatalities. When we arrived
at the hospital, we were notified that two of Dick's friends had died and
another boy was in serious condition.

I will never forget how thankful we were when we were told that Dick actually
wasn't with this group. Instead of going for a ride, he decided instead to go
over to his girlfriend's house to spend some time with her. We felt so bad for
the other families, but, at the same time, so relieved that Dick was all right.

### After High School

I graduated from Central High School in 1949 at age 17.

I wanted to go to university like some of my friends, but my dad said that it
was important that I get a job so that I would understand what hard work was all
about. I had to remember that my dad had to quit school in the 7th grade to help
support his family after his father was killed while working for the railroad.
My mother also only had a 7th grade education. After her parents divorced, she
needed to help out at home due to her mother's serious health problems.

For that reason, I became an apprentice bricklayer after I graduated from high
school in 1949. This meant that I had to serve a four year apprenticeship to
become a journeyman Brickmason.

I loved having a job so I could have my own spending money, plus I was able to
pay room and board at home. After taxes, I cleared $40 a week. I can still
remember that I paid $15 a week to live at home (almost 40% of my pay). Dad gave
my money to my mother so that she could buy things for herself.

I remember during this time that I was able to buy my mother an automatic
dishwasher. This made her so happy. The Gadd's had come a long way; we started
with an ice box and now we had both an electric dishwasher and refrigerator
(which dad had bought a few years before).

Prior to owning a refrigerator, I remember how the ice man would come each week
in his truck to deliver ice. My folks would put a sign in the window telling the
man how many pounds of ice they needed for that week. While working, he would
chip off small pieces of ice for us to chew so we would stay out of his way.
While moving around, he would grab the ice with tongs which allowed him to put
the ice on his back to be carried.

My dad was highly respected in bricklaying and had little trouble finding work.
However, most contractors didn't want to be burdened with an apprentice like me.
When my father was the foreman, I would work for him. This turned out to be
difficult, challenging work. My dad would give me the jobs that he didn't want
to give to the journeymen brickmasons. Most of the time, this meant working off
of a swinging scaffold cleaning down the new construction with muriatic acid.
Other times, it meant working from a ladder to brick around joists underneath
the roof.

Dad did allow me to get some good experience working on the wall with the
bricklayers, but if there were any chores that the journeymen didn't like, I was
expected to complete them. To be fair, most apprentices should handle these
jobs, but not every day. I felt that my dad had gone somewhat overboard as
several bricklayers could complete in a few hours what would take me many days
or weeks to finish.

Shortly after starting my full-time job in construction, I bought a 1941
Plymouth. I used my new car for dates and to go to work each day. When I left
for the Navy in 1951, I told my brothers, Bob and Dick, that they could drive
the car while I was gone. I explained to them that I would expect to use it when
I came home from boot camp.

Later, when I arrived home, I was shocked as the car's transmission was
completely ruined after only twelve weeks of use. My brothers said that they
were able to power shift without using the clutch, which explained what happened
to the transmission.
