---
slug: "chapter-11-mitzie-and-the-boys"
title: "Mitzie and the Boys"
subtitle: "The heart of our home"
summary: "Everyday moments with Mitzie and the boys—humor, teamwork, and love woven through busy family life."
thumbnail: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1487412912498-0447578fcca8?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
---

_{readingTime}_

# {frontmatter.title}

<Image
  src="https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1487412912498-0447578fcca8?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
  alt="Mitzie and the Boys"
  width={1000}
  height={1000}
/>

## Chapter 11 - Mitzie and the boys

### Marianne Elizabeth

On October 28th, 1977, after my marriage with Marilyn had ended in divorce, I
married Marianne "Mitzie" Elizabeth Turner.

Mitzie is very sensitive and also very bright. She was a nurse at Stanford
University Hospital for 15 years before deciding to go back to college to pursue
a career as a marriage and children's therapist.

After enrolling at Cal State University at Hayward, Mitzie was earning straight
A's in all of her undergraduate and masters classes. In 1990, she was named the
Psychology Student of the Year.

In addition to her nursing degree, Mitzie received her Bachelor's degree in
Psychology followed by a Master's degree in Counseling from CSUH.

I am very proud of what Mitzie has accomplished as she now has a very successful
marriage and family therapy practice in Pleasanton.

Mitzie and I are best friends, probably because we have so much in common. Our
values on religion, politics, morals and, most importantly, on how to raise
children are the same.

We're also both doers who don't procrastinate. We're the type of people that
hung pictures up on the day we moved into our last three homes. When we return
from a trip, we always put everything away immediately, even if it's two o'clock
in the morning. We also pay our bills on the day that they're received.

Mitzie and I have been blessed with three wonderful sons: Jeffrey Robert, Kevin
Eugene, and Brett Richard.

### Jeffrey Robert

Jeff was born on June 21st, 1974, at Stanford University hospital in Palo Alto,
California. Mitzie and I both liked the name Jeffrey, and we chose Robert for
the middle name to honor my brother Bob and Mitzie's brother and father, who are
both named Bob.

Jeff was born one month premature and it really bothered me to see all the tests
that the hospital did to him during those first few days of his life.

Jeff is intelligent, athletic, caring and very personable.

Jeff attended Valley Christian High School in Dublin, California. He played
varsity basketball and set the school record for most three point field goals.
He also played varsity soccer and played second and third base as well as
shortstop during his two year baseball career.

Jeff was only the second athlete in Valley Christian High School history to make
All League honors in three sports. Not only that, Jeff was also the captain
during his senior year for all three teams.

As Student Body President, Jeff was named Student of the Year by the Rotary Club
of Dublin during his senior year. He graduated from Valley Christian High School
in 1992.

Following high school, Jeff started working at the deli at Club Sport of
Pleasanton, one of the largest athletic clubs in Northern California. Soon after
starting there, Jeff was promoted into management. Recently (1998), he was
promoted again to supervisor of the closing managers. Jeff was recently honored
as Employee of the Year at a club banquet. This was a wonderful honor given that
Club Sport has a large number of employees.

Jeff will soon be completing his college degree, where he plans to major in
Business.

### Kevin Eugene

Kevin was born June 13th, 1980, at Valley Memorial Hospital in Livermore,
California. Mitzie and I were having trouble coming up with the right name for
the new baby as we thought we might have a girl. We both liked the name Kevin
and we agreed that Eugene would be the perfect middle name.

Kevin is very sensitive, intelligent and athletic, plus, he has a great sense of
humor.

He has always been a lot of fun because he doesn't hold back on anything; you
always know exactly how he feels.

Kevin followed in Jeff's footsteps and played varsity baseball, basketball and
soccer at Valley Christian High School. When Kevin was a sophomore he was
captain of the Junior Varsity basketball team. That same year, he was presented
his varsity letter for baseball at the sports banquet.

During his junior year, he was a starting outfielder for the Varsity baseball
team. Kevin was given the "Most Improved" award for varsity at the basketball
sports banquet during his junior year.

Kevin has a gift for getting up and talking in front of people, and I'm hoping
that someday he will give theater a try; he has always been the dramatic one in
the family. My friends still talk about the speech he gave at my retirement
dinner.

He worked at the Ruby Hills Golf Club during his sophomore year, and has worked
the last two summers at the TCBY (yogurt) store in Pleasanton. He was recently
hired to work at Club Sport of Pleasanton like his brother, Jeff. He will
graduate from high school in 1999.

### Brett Richard

Brett was born on November 24th, 1981, at Valley Memorial Hospital in Livermore,
California. He was kept in the hospital for two extra nights because he wouldn't
wet his diaper. We finally got to bring him home on Thanksgiving night.

I had been a Kansas City Royals fan at the time of Brett's birth, and
particularly a fan of their "All Star" 3rd baseman, George Brett. For this
reason, we thought the name of Brett would be a great choice. Mitzie and I gave
Brett the middle name of Richard in honor of my brother Dick in Kansas City.

Brett is very intelligent, athletic and popular with his school friends, plus he
has a great work ethic.

Brett started every freshman and junior varsity basketball game while playing at
Amador Valley High School in Pleasanton. During his freshman year, Brett was
awarded “Most Valuable" of the Junior Varsity tennis team and was also captain
of the Freshman basketball team. As a sophomore, he was given the Amador J.V.
basketball "Coaches Award" for his leadership and scoring.

Brett has transferred to Valley Christian High School so that he can graduate
from the same school as his brothers, Jeff and Kevin. He will play varsity
soccer and basketball at Valley Christian.

Brett has a special talent in art. He also enjoys working with computers which
should be helpful in whatever field he chooses. He has the ability to sit down
and put anything together after reading instructions. Brett is now working at
Club Sport of Pleasanton, just like his brothers. He will graduate from high
school in the year 2000.

### Best Friends

The boys have become very close to each other, even though there is more than
six years difference in age. Jeff looks out for his brothers and likes to loan
them clothes, money, etc. Jeff is very proud of his brother's accomplishments in
athletics; he doesn't like to miss any of their games.

Kevin and Brett look up to Jeff. One of their favorite activities is to be able
to hang out with him at his apartment. Jeff recently told his mother and I that
Kevin and Brett were his two best friends.

### Importance of an Education

My four older children (Mike, Cathy, Patty, and Rebecca) have all earned a
university degree. Hopefully, the three younger boys (Jeff, Kevin, and Brett)
will all graduate from college in the next few years.
