---
slug: "chapter-12-valley-christian"
title: "Valley Christian"
subtitle: "Faith, service, community"
summary: "Serving, leading, and investing in the next generation—memories from the seasons at Valley Christian."
thumbnail: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1502209524164-acea936639a2?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
---

## Chapter 12 - Valley Christian

### Church and Faith

As I mentioned earlier, I was very active in our church growing up, but back
then it was simply what young boys were expected to do. When we wanted more
discipline than what Jeff was receiving at his elementary school, we decided to
enroll him at Valley Christian School in Dublin, California. This private school
emphasized the basics—reading, writing, and arithmetic—along with strong
discipline. Mitzie and I appreciated everything about the school except for its
heavy religious focus, though we both understood that it was affiliated with the
church.

At seven years old, Jeff began telling us about the love of Jesus and asked if
Mitzie and I would attend church with him. After years of being turned off by
religion, we decided in 1982 to start attending Valley Christian Church in
Dublin. There we were taught Bible scripture by a wonderful teacher and pastor
named Ward Tandenberg, whom the congregation affectionately called "Pastor T."
The church sits high in the Dublin hills, offering a beautiful panoramic view of
the entire valley.

I will never forget one Thanksgiving church service when "Pastor T" passed the
microphone around so that people in the congregation could share what they were
thankful for. Our son Jeff grabbed the microphone and announced to everyone that
he was thankful that "Jesus had died on the cross for our sins." I can honestly
say that from that moment on, I wanted to know more about the Lord. This would
turn out to be another good decision for me.

Since I made the commitment to have a personal relationship with my Lord and
Savior, Jesus Christ, I have experienced such peace. I know that if I were to
die today, I would be with the Lord, and that knowledge has given me great
comfort. I am so thankful that Jeff taught me about the love of Jesus and that
he asked Mitzie and me to pray and attend church together.

Along with my family—seven children, seven grandchildren, and Mitzie—my faith
has become the most important part of my life. I also know that my prayers have
been answered countless times over the years. I believe that Jesus knew I would
have a personal relationship with Him even before I did. This has to be the
reason that my family and I have been blessed so many times throughout my
lifetime. All I can say is, "Thank you, Lord," and I love you!

### School Board

In 1988, "Pastor T" and the church board asked me to serve on the Valley
Christian School Board. The school had an enrollment of over 1,200 students
across four divisions: Preschool, Elementary, Junior High, and High School.
After serving for two years, the other board members and "Pastor T" asked me to
become chairman of the school board.

These were difficult times. I had to replace the high school principal because
he wasn't properly handling school business. Many people in the church opposed
this change, but I felt I had to do what was best for the high school. Looking
back, everyone agrees that I made the right decision, but at the time it was
difficult because this man was part of our church family. I served on the school
board for four years total.
