---
slug: "chapter-2-paternal-relatives"
title: "Paternal Relatives"
subtitle: "The Gadd lineage"
summary: "Stories and anecdotes from the paternal sideâ€”heritage, character, and the traditions passed down through generations."
thumbnail: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1453728013993-6d66e9c9123a?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
---

## Chapter 2 - Paternal Relatives: Gadd/Blanchard/Allen/Parker

### Tragedy

My paternal grandfather, Harris Byron Gadd, was born on March 28th, 1883, in
Lebanon, Missouri. He worked construction on the railroads. My dad's mom, Flora
Adelia (Blanchard) Gadd, was born on September 21st, 1887, in Dade County,
Missouri. Dad's parents were married April 9th, 1907.

Growing up, I had very little exposure to these grandparents because of some
unfortunate circumstances.

Grandpa Byron was killed on March 12th, 1917, in a train accident while he was
working on the railroad in Mt. Vernon, Washington. He was 33 years old when he
died, and would have been 34 in only about two weeks. My dad was only 8 years
old at the time.

A few years after his dad was killed, my dad, at only 12 years old, quit school
in the 7th grade so he could help support his family.

Eventually, my dad was taught to be a bricklayer by his first step dad whose
name was Troy. The marriage between he and my grandmother didn't work out. She
remarried again and eventually moved to Everett, Washington. Dad was still a
young man and decided to stay in Kansas City so he could finish his brick mason
apprenticeship.

My grandmother Gadd came to visit our family on her vacation in 1947, but aside
from that, I only remember seeing her a few times. She died on February 4th,
1974, in Everett, Washington. She lived to be 86 years old.

### Buried at Sea

My grandpa Harris's father, Joseph Collins Gadd, Sr., was born on January 18th,
1844, in Somersetshire, England. He came to the United States from England when
he was only two years old. His father (my Great, Great Grandfather) died on the
ship coming to the United States from England and was buried at sea.

Grandfather's mother was Lydia Anne (Allen) Gadd who was born January 17th,
1846, in Mt. Pleasant, Wisconsin.

Great Grandfather Joseph and Great Grandmother Lydia Anne were married on
October 2nd, 1866. They had seven children: five sons and two daughters.

Joseph Collins Gadd, Sr. died April 6th, 1925, in Lebanon, Missouri at the age
of 81. At 84, my Great Grandmother Lydia passed away on March 27th, 1930.

### Blanchards and Parkers

On my grandmother Flora's side, her dad was John J. Blanchard. He was born
February 10th, 1859, in Ash Grove, Missouri. Her mother was Susan Tabithia
Parker and she was born on March 11th, 1869, in Clinton, Missouri. They lived to
be 75 (August 17th, 1935) and 86 (August 6th, 1956) respectively.

Great Grandma Susan's father was William Franklin Parker, a Baptist minister.
Reverend Parker was my Great, Great Grandfather. He was born on March 18th,
1844, and he died on May 13th, 1920, at 76 Years of age. Pastor Parker's wife
was Nancy Jane Harris (my Great, Great Grandmother) who lived from December
10th, 1847, until her death on June 19th, 1901, at 53 years of age.

### Uncle Elmer and Aunt Laurine

My father was one of three children.

His older brother's name was Elmer Elsworth Gadd. Elmer's wife was my aunt,
Laurine (Fager) Gadd. Elmer was born on November 19, 1906. My Aunt and Uncle
were married on June 1st, 1932.

Uncle Elmer worked for the U.S. Postal Service after being discharged from the
U.S. Navy. Aunt Laurine was one of the nicest people that you would ever want to
meet.

They had one child, Myrtle Marie. My aunt and uncle had a hard time raising my
cousin as she was very independent and had trouble taking direction when she was young.

When Myrtle was in high school, my aunt and uncle would more or less let her do
whatever she wanted. I remember that Myrtle Marie was married right after she
graduated from high school. I don't have any idea where Myrtle Marie lives now
because I haven't seen her in years.

Uncle Elmer died January 12th, 1975.

### The Wards

My father's other sibling was his younger sister, Doris (Gadd) Ward, who was
born on May 3rd, 1912. She was married to Ronald Kenneth Ward.

Aunt Doris and Uncle Kenneth had three children whose names were Bill, Margie,
and Ronnie.

Back in the mid 1930s, hardly anyone had any money because the depression had
made it difficult for people to be able to pay their bills. Uncle Kenneth had a
college education and had a higher paying job than most men. My aunt and uncle
were doing better than most families. As mentioned earlier, Uncle Kenneth helped
dad find a job during the depression as a paint mixer.

My brothers and I knew that the Wards had more than we did, but we were never
concerned as we were very content with our family.

Aunt Doris would sometimes make comments like, "You poor boys", as if our family
was in poverty and we didn't have enough money. Although my aunt was right about
our family not having a lot, my brothers and I always felt that if we weren't
rich, we must be doing alright; we were living as well as most of the people in
our neighborhood.

I always felt that our family had it more together than the Wards even though
they lived in a large home and belonged to the Blue Hills Country Club, an
exclusive club in the south part of Kansas City.

Bill went to Yale University and Margie went to Lindenwood College which was an
exclusive school for women. Ronnie ended up going to the same college that I
attended, which was the University of Kansas City (renamed to the University of
Missouri at Kansas City in 1962).

### Fort Parker, Texas

Actually, the Parker name on my dad's side has historical significance since my
relatives had a fort named after them in Texas. In 1834, Fort Parker was built
by the emigrating Parker family and others from Illinois. In 1836, a large party
of Native Americans, led by the Comanches, raided Fort Parker (40 miles east of
Waco) and massacred many of the men and kidnapped the women and children.

Founding elder John Parker and two of his sons, Benjamin and Silas, were all
killed. Some of the men at the fort were apparently working in the fields so
they survived, but the women and children were very vulnerable to the surprise
attack.

Silas Parker's nine year old daughter, Cynthia Ann Parker, was kidnapped and
later became one of Chief Peta Nocona's wives. Silas's oldest boy, John Junior,
at six years of age, was also captured among many other women and children.

Cynthia and the chief eventually had a son they named Quanah Parker who became
one of the Comanche's most daring chiefs. John Junior became a Comanche warrior.

Quanah Parker eventually surrendered to federal troops and he later was
appointed chief of all Comanches by the federal government. He became a good
friend of the United States President, Teddy Roosevelt.
