---
slug: "chapter-8-return-to-civilian-life"
title: "Return to Civilian Life"
subtitle: "New rhythms onshore"
summary: "Transitioning from military precision to everyday lifeâ€”work, community, and the steady building of a future."
thumbnail: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1494526585095-c41746248156?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
---

_{readingTime}_

# {frontmatter.title}

<Image
  src="https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1494526585095-c41746248156?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
  alt="Return to Civilian Life"
  width={1000}
  height={1000}
/>

## Chapter 8 - Return to Civilian Life

### Rockhurst College

Shortly after Michael was born, I returned to civilian life in April, 1955. Even
though my father was now living in San Antonio, Texas, I was able to continue my
apprenticeship and find work in K.C. for a good contractor (Morris Hoffman Co.).
The bricklaying foreman was a man named Al Stonger, a wonderful person and a
great teacher.

As you recall, I did not attend college after high school but went straight to
work before joining the Navy. When I was in the Armed Forces, I met so many men
who had already attended a university. I felt that it might be possible for me
to attend college when I was discharged, and the time had come.

Even though I had several years remaining on my apprenticeship, I made one of
the best decisions ever when I enrolled in night school at Rockhurst College, in
September of 1955.

I took ten units a semester while working full time as a brick mason. This was
very difficult as I would leave the house each morning before 7AM, get home at
approx. 5:30 PM, then head right back out for class which started at 6:10 PM.
The classes ended at 10:30 PM when I could finally go home. Thankfully, they
were only three nights a week (Mon/Wed/Fri), so I had Tuesdays and Thursdays
plus the weekend for studying.

After three years, I had 60 college credits, which counted as almost two full
years at university. The requirement was 128 units to graduate.

### University of Kansas City

At this time of my life, I made another critically important decision: to quit
my full time job laying brick as a journeyman. This allowed me to go to college
full time and work towards a degree.

I had saved about $600 and was told by the foreman, Al Stonger, that he would
hire me part time which would help me with paying my bills. I had so much
confidence in myself during this time of my life that I even bought a home in
Kansas City.

I decided to major in Business and enrolled at the University of Kansas City
(now the University of Missouri at Kansas City). Thanks to my bricklaying job,
and the G.I. Bill for veterans, I was able to pay for all of my tuition without
taking out any loans.

The G.I. Bill paid me $120 each month which, while not a lot of money, gave me
some breathing room. I have always wondered about people who say that they can't
afford to go to college, when they've never even tried to come up with a plan to
pay for their education.

### Even Harder Work

I was now laying brick one or two days a week, plus I started to sell Wearever
Cookware whenever I could sign up for appointments. This was the busiest time of
my life as I also decided to play college baseball and basketball while I was
working construction and selling cookware.

When I didn't have enough money to pay my bills, I would go out and sell two or
three sets of cookware which paid me a 20% commission. In just a few months of
selling cookware, I became the number one salesman in the Kansas City division
for Alcoa Aluminum, Wearever's parent company. I also joined the Delta Chi
Fraternity because I thought this would help me get a career position after
graduation.

During my senior year of college, I studied for my Missouri Real Estate license
and passed the board. I started selling homes for the Hank Riffe Co. I also
worked in retail for Emery Bird Thayer department store in downtown Kansas City
which also helped me get an "A" in my retail class. After selling cooking
utensils, real estate and men's wear, I knew that I could have a career in sales
if I didn't land a coaching job.

### UKC Baseball and Basketball

While at the University of Kansas City, I played varsity baseball and was
honored to be named captain of the team during my senior year. I had a good year
as I batted over .330 and played every outfield position in a winning season. I
was named first team all league along with my teammate Joe Haynes.

In basketball, I didn't have the same success even though I played varsity both
years. I never started a single game! I was usually the 2nd player off the bench
which was a big disappointment.

Coach Brummit always felt that at 6'2", I was too small to play a wing, even
though I had shown him during the preseason that I could stay with the bigger
players. He told me after the season that he should have played me more, but
since I was a senior, he wanted to give the players who were underclassmen more
game experience. That really didn't help me feel any better, because I knew that
I could have helped the team more than some of the other players. This would
have been especially true in the tight ball games that were decided by one or
two points.

I remember that my roommate on the road was our seven foot center, Phil Fleming.
Although he was listed at seven feet in the program, I think he was closer to
6'10" or 6'11.

Because of his height, he had a hard time traveling on the road. When sleeping,
he would have to put a chair at the end of the bed with a pillow so that he
could stretch his legs out.

He was also very shy about talking to the ladies. One time, while standing in
line at the student union, he noticed a girl he was attracted to, but he
wouldn't go over and talk to her. I went over to tell her that my buddy wanted
to meet her. Come to find out, she was also pretty shy and I couldn't get her to
go and meet Phil. Finally, after much persuasion, I introduced them and they
ended up getting married when Phil graduated. She was also tall at 5'10". I have
often wondered if they had children, and, if so, how tall they were.

During my time in the navy, and in the college years that followed, my family
slowly grew and grew.
