---
slug: "chapter-9-growing-the-family"
title: "Growing the Family"
subtitle: "Welcoming new life"
summary: "Marriage, babies, and the beautiful chaos of a home filled with laughter, love, and late-night feedings."
thumbnail: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1519681393784-d120267933ba?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
---

_{readingTime}_

# {frontmatter.title}

<Image
  src="https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1519681393784-d120267933ba?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
  alt="Growing the Family"
  width={1000}
  height={1000}
/>

## Chapter 9 - Growing the Family

### Michael Eugene

Mike was born on September 8th, 1954, at St. Joseph Hospital in Kansas City,
Missouri. I didn't want to call my son Eugene Wilfred, so we gave him my first
name as his middle name instead.

As mentioned before, I was overseas when Mike was born so I didn't see him until
he was several months old. I still thought about him every day until I could
hold him in my arms.

Mike is intelligent, athletic, caring and has an excellent work ethic.

He played varsity basketball, baseball, and ran cross country at Amador Valley
High School in Pleasanton, California. Mike then attended Cal State, Chico,
where he became the welterweight boxing champion (he never lost a match when I
was in attendance). Mike graduated from Chico State with a degree in Physical
Education.

Mike decided to quit boxing after graduation, even though he was asked to go on
to the National Boxing Championships.

Mike had it tough growing up as he was my oldest. I coached him hard in
football, basketball, and baseball, and my high expectations made it difficult
on him.

Mike married Anne Gildea after meeting her at Chico State, which has worked out
great as Anne is from Livermore, the next city east from Pleasanton.

Mike has worked in management for both Terminix and Clark pest control. He was
the manager for Terminix's Yuba City office before being employed by Clark. From
there, he worked in the field for Clark a short time before being promoted to a
manager.

They have two beautiful children, Emily Anne and Brian Reese, and own their home
in Sacramento, California.

### Catherine Ellen

Cathy was born on August 18th, 1957, also at St. Joseph Hospital in Kansas City,
Missouri. Marilyn and I liked Cathy for a name, and we also wanted to honor my
mother by giving her the middle name of Ellen.

I was so excited about having a daughter that I would wake her up every night
once I got home from my classes at Rockhurst College.

Cathy is very personable, intelligent, attractive and athletic.

She was very competitive growing up as she wouldn't let anyone beat her at
anything. I remember when she was in high school, the boys would come to the
house to play ping pong and she would always win.

Cathy was a song leader, cheerleader and she played varsity tennis while
attending Amador Valley High School in Pleasanton. She also competed in the
â€œMiss Pleasanton" beauty contest. Cathy worked as a lifeguard at Pleasanton
Meadows and taught swimming during summer vacations in high school.

She graduated from Cal State, Chico, with a Communications degree. She has been
working in security for the Lawrence Livermore Lab. Before Cathy worked at the
Lab, she sold furniture at Valley Furniture in Livermore.

Cathy married Russ Hastings, and, together, they are very proud of their
beautiful daughter, Rachael Alexandria. Russ was raised in Livermore, where he
and Cathy own a Firestone store, with an additional store in Dublin. Cathy and
Russ own their home in Livermore, California.

### Patricia Diane

Patty was born on November 29th, 1959, at St. Luke's Hospital in Kansas City,
Missouri. Her mother and I both loved the name of Patricia and agreed that Diane
was a perfect middle name to go with it.

I was standing by the hospital elevator, when the physician who delivered Patty
walked up to me and said, "your daughter is really put together well!" He
explained that most babies were very scrawny, but "your little girl is built."

Patty is attractive, intelligent, very sensitive, athletic and very personable.

I always feel bad for Patty as she inherited my allergies, although they
hopefully will get better with age.

I remember when Patty was young, she would get tears in her eyes while watching
a movie, just like her dad.

Patty was a song leader and head flag at Amador Valley High School in
Pleasanton. She also worked as a lifeguard and taught swimming at Pleasanton
Meadows.

Patty graduated from Cal State, Chico, with a major in Fashion Merchandising.
Patty worked as a manager for Macy's before becoming a school teacher in Tracy,
CA for the last few years.

She met her husband, Kevin Santin, when they both were lifeguards. They married
soon after and are the proud parents of two beautiful children, Eric Robert and
Kelsey Dianne. Kevin was raised in Pleasanton and also attended Amador Valley
High School. When I look at Kelsey, it is hard not to call her Patty as they
look so much alike. Patty and Kevin own their home in Livermore, California.

### Rebecca Sue

Rebecca was born on February 7th, 1963, at Mercy Hospital in Sacramento,
California. I always loved the name of Rebecca, and we decided to give her
Marilyn's middle name of Sue. I also liked the nickname of Becky, but in college
she asked all of us to only call her Rebecca.

She was born with a hernia, and would need to have it repaired. Watching her go
through surgery was very difficult for me, as I didn't want her to have to
endure that when she was so young.

Rebecca is attractive, personable, athletic, and aggressive, plus she has a good
work ethic.

One thing that I loved was how she always stood up for herself. I remember
Rebecca chasing her sisters when she got mad at them, even though they were
several years older. When Rebecca was young, I never had to remind her about
following up on a job application or anything else. She doesn't procrastinate.

Rebecca was a cheerleader and played basketball at Foothill High School in
Pleasanton. Like her sisters, Rebecca was also a lifeguard and taught swimming
at several different pools in Pleasanton.

Rebecca graduated from Cal State, Chico, with a major in Elementary Education.
She taught school for two years in Woodland, California, and has been teaching
in Moraga, California, for several years.

While at Chico State, Rebecca met Jon Walker, who was raised in Lafayette,
California. They married and, together, they are the proud parents of two
beautiful children, Cameron Christopher and Austin Scott. Rebecca and Jon own
their home in Danville, California.

### Doing Our Best

For my four older children, their lives growing up weren't always easy as they
were raised a lot like I was. They were expected to mind and respect their
parents. I was very strict with them, but after seeing the way they've all
turned out, I guess their mother and I did a pretty good job.

I am very proud of each of them for graduating from college, and having career
positions in the workforce. I am also pleased that they all turned out to be
good citizens.

They have given me seven beautiful grandchildren. I love Mike, Cathy, Patty, and
Rebecca very much and I love and adore their children. I wish that I could spend
more time with them, but I know they have busy lives with their young families
and successful careers.
