---
slug: "chapter-3-maternal-relatives"
title: "Maternal Relatives"
subtitle: "Strengths of the Turner side"
summary: "Memories from the maternal branches of the family treeâ€”warmth, resilience, and the stories that shaped our values."
thumbnail: "https://images.unsplash.com/photo-1455815152231-be9c88eb7468?auto=format&fit=crop&w=1200&h=675&q=80"
readTime: 4
---

## Chapter 3 - Maternal Relatives - Parker/Betz/Bowers

### Parker and Parker

My maternal grandmother, Maude Edna (Betz) Parker, was born February 24th, 1884,
in Lincoln, Nebraska. My grandfather, George Irvin Parker, was born in February
of 1876. They married on March 16th, 1907.

Unfortunately, they were divorced before I was born. I was told by my mother
that it was due to pressure from the family, who were against the marriage since
my grandparents were first cousins.

After the divorce, my grandfather Parker then moved to Huntington, West
Virginia, where he worked as a tile setter.

After suffering from a prolonged illness, Grandma Maude died on October 23rd,
1932, only a few months after I was born. She was only 48 years old. I have
often wondered if she died of a broken heart.

As for Grandpa Parker, I only met him once when I was six years old (1937) and
we went to visit him in West Virginia. He died in 1940 at age 64. He is buried
in Huntington, West Virginia.

Grandpa George's father was Benjamin Parker (my Great Grandfather). He was born
August 23rd, 1857, in Adair County, Ohio. His wife (my Great Grandmother) was
Alice (Bowers) Parker.

### My German Roots

The father of my Grandma Maude was James Franklin Betz, born November
30th, 1857. Her mother (my Great Grandmother), Sarah Ella Parker, was born
January 19th, 1859, in Adair County, Ohio.

Great Grandma Sarah (mom's maternal grandma) was a sister to Benjamin Parker
(mom's paternal grandpa), which made my Grandma Maude and Grandpa George first
cousins.

James Franklin Betz died July 23rd, 1919, at 61 years of age. Sarah Ella Parker
passed away February 24th, 1946, when she was 87 years old.

### Great Uncle Harry Betz

My mother's uncle was Harry Donald Betz, and he was born January 26th, 1892.
Uncle Harry's wife was our aunt, Mildred (Leffler) Betz. They were married on
January 18th, 1925. Uncle Harry was the brother of my maternal grandmother,
Maude Edna (Betz) Parker.

Uncle Harry made a large impression on us boys while we were growing up. He made
his money by discovering how to cool large buildings by freezing pipes and then
blowing the pipes with large fans. His company was Betz Engineering and he also
owned several locker plants for people to store their meat.

He also had built his own airplane which made him a hero to the family. However,
what I mostly remember was how frugal (tight) he was. Uncle Harry and Aunt
Mildred lived in a wealthy area across the state line in Kansas which is still
nice fifty years later. My uncle wouldn't allow us three boys to go into some of
the rooms in their home or sit in some of their chairs. Other than these quirks,
he and my Aunt Mildred treated us great, although I resented it when my aunt
would give my mother her hand-me-down clothes. My mother was very thankful for
the clothes, but I made up my mind then and there that I would work hard when I
was an adult, so that my family would never have to rely on someone else for
anything.

My brothers and I loved to play tricks on Uncle Harry as he was pretty naive for
being so successful. Once when we were playing poker, Uncle Harry went into
another room which allowed us to set up the hands where my uncle had a straight
and one of us would have either a royal flush, or a full house. He became very
excited, and he would bid us up and we would also keep bidding. He kept saying
"I have never seen so many good hands."

We played this prank on him several times. We always tried to give him his money
back and explained to him that we had been playing a trick, but he wouldn't take
it. He said that he was an experienced poker player, "been playing poker since
before you were born", and it would be impossible to fool him. My brothers and I
laughed about what had happened, but I felt pretty guilty for what we had done.

Uncle Harry and Aunt Mildred celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary in Kansas
City in 1975. Uncle Harry died November 11th, 1977, at 85 years of age. Aunt
Mildred passed away in 1987.

### The Simpsons

My mother was one of two girls. Her older sister, Maude E. (Parker) Simpson, was
born November 11th, 1907. She married James T. Simpson on June 19th, 1925.

Together, Aunt Maude and Uncle Jim had three children. The kids' names were Jim
Jr., George and Verna.

My folks didn't have any respect for my Uncle Jim. He was dishonest and
mistreated his children. Uncle Jim was a poor example for them as he was always
trying to find ways to cheat and beat the system. While working for the city, he
would often brag about stealing tools and supplies from work that he would later
try to sell.

He was also a bully to his kids (my cousins). For example, he would cut large
chunks of hair from the front of their heads if they came to the dinner table
without washing their hands. Looking back on these types of incidents, I feel
that my uncle was showing off for my parents when we would visit their home.

Jim Jr. was easily the favorite of his father, which likely took its toll on
George's self esteem.

Uncle Jim was always putting George down. My cousin George was always unhappy
and ultimately, he was convicted in his twenties of being the driver in the
robbery of a liquor store. George spent many of his adult years at San Quentin
Prison in California.

Jim Jr. became a Boy Scout executive, a path much different than my cousin
George.

I have lost track of Verna over the years as she moved out of state and never
answered our Christmas cards or sent a forwarding address.

When we were children, our families would get together each Thanksgiving and
Christmas, and also to celebrate birthdays. We stayed pretty close with my
cousins until my brothers and I went into the service.

Aunt Maude passed away on October 8th, 1995, at 87 years of age.

### English, Scottish and German

My ancestral lineage is very interesting because we have Parkers on both my
mother's and father's sides. Some of the names in dad's family are: Gadd, Allen,
Parker, Harris, Blanchard, Duckett, Francher and Scottish clans of Wilson, Kemp
and Black. Ethan Allen (a prominent figure in the American Revolution) was in my
dad's heritage going all the way back to 1738.

On mom's side, the names are Betz, Bowers, Prichard, and Parker with both her
parents. The names show a strong English ancestry. The exception would be with
the Betz name which is German. As I mentioned above Dad also had Parker on one
side and my mother had Parker in both her parents' ancestry. Some day I would
like to pursue this lineage to see if there is a connection between the two
families.

### Missed Opportunity

When I was growing up, my school friends and the guys in the neighborhood would
often talk about going over to their grandparents house. This would usually be
for holidays or staying for a couple of weeks during the summer. My brothers and
I never stayed with our grandparents because they either weren't alive or didn't
live in the Kansas City area.

It would have been great spending time with my grandparents while I was growing
up, but I really didn't know the difference since it never happened. I never
felt cheated, probably because I received so much attention from my mother and
father.
