## Part 10 - The Start of Something Great

I received my Business degree in May of 1961 from the University of Kansas City.
At graduation, I was 28 years old with three children. I hope this doesn't come
across as bragging, but I am proud that I was the first Gadd to receive a
college degree.

My brother, Bob, was the second Gadd to graduate. Dick would have graduated if
his business hadn't taken him out of town.

### Coaching

Although I now had a Business degree, I had always had a love for coaching
sports to children and also adults.

After college, even after changing my major from Physical Education to Business,
I made a serious attempt to get into the coaching profession. I visited several
high schools in the Kansas City area looking for an opportunity. I found some
interest at Central High (my alma mater).

What I discovered after several interviews was that teachers were seriously
underpaid. I believed that money wasn't everything, but I needed to support a
growing family which already included three children.

If I had gone straight to college after high school and graduated at 21 years
old, and didn't have children, I know I would have gone into coaching for
whatever they would offer me. My timeline didn't work out that way, and I didn't
feel that I could let my family suffer because of what I wanted for a career.

I did the next best thing by deciding to be a volunteer coach. I coached my own
children but also many times for teams when I didn't have a child playing.

I coached baseball, basketball, soccer, and football. Many of these teams won
league championships, but even the teams that didn't win gave me a great deal of
satisfaction. My joy came from working with so many fantastic young people.

Over the years, I have received a lot of personal satisfaction from coaching. I
have had the pleasure of working with many wonderful young men and women. Many
of these former players are now adults who have their own families. I can only
hope that they are coaching in their communities.

I am adding this section to 'My Memories' so that my children, grandchildren and
great grandchildren will have knowledge about my love of working with young men
and women.

For me, coaching was a wonderful way to give back to the community while at the
same time being able to enjoy what I was doing.

### Thanks, Baseball

When I graduated from the University of Kansas City (now U.M.K.C.), I was sure
that my Delta Chi fraternity contacts would help me land a good job. However, it
turned out to be my baseball playing that helped me even more.

The placement director at the university, Mr. Fencil, was a big fan of the ball
team. He arranged for me to have an interview with Burroughs Wellcome
Pharmaceutical Company. I never would have been invited to interview without Mr.
Fencil, as you had to be a science major to talk to any of the pharmaceutical
companies.

Burroughs was one of only two pharma companies interviewing on campus with the
other one being Parke Davis. I was most interested to talk to Burroughs Wellcome
since one of my buddies on the ball team, Jerry Fair, had started with them
in 1960.

Jerry had graduated as a Biology major and raved about how good Burroughs
Wellcome was to work for. He also mentioned that they also had a great training
program.

I figured that even though I'd likely take a pay decrease compared with my job
as a journeyman brickmason, I would more than make up for it in a couple of
years.

### Betting on Myself

I interviewed with the Kansas City manager, Pete Peterson. He was quick to tell
me that he didn't think I could handle the training without having a science
background. I told him that if he gave me the chance, I would be one of the
company's top sales reps, not only in my district, but in the country. He turned
and looked me in the eye and said, "Do you really believe that you could be one
of our top salesmen?" I answered back that I had been successful at whatever I
tried and I would guarantee my success, if only he would give me the chance to
prove it to him.

He agreed to test me and, although I didn't get a high score on the science
portion, I did extremely well on the sales test. For this reason, he gave me a
chance and sent me east to Tuckahoe, New York, for my final interview. I had to
take another test which gave me the opportunity to do better on the science
portion and score even higher on the sales exam (which thankfully, I did).

During the meetings in New York, I was once again told that they had concerns
about me. However, after the final interview, I was thrilled to find out I'd
been hired and assigned the territory in Sacramento, California.

### Basic Training in Boston

I started working on probation with Burroughs Wellcome right away, earning $450
a month. On April 10th, 1961, my first day, I'd be travelling to Boston,
Massachusetts, for basic training.

Once again, I scored very high on the sales part of the training, although the
science product knowledge was still very difficult for me. Thankfully, of the
six of us in basic training, several of the guys were pharmacists. Their help in
class and during the study sessions was invaluable.

### Field Training in San Francisco

After three weeks of training, I was sent to San Francisco for field training,
which included working with my new manager and four territory trainers. In May
of 1961, I had no choice but to miss my college graduation ceremony due to my
training and the travel it required.

### Advanced Training in New York

After about four months in the field, I was sent back to Tuckahoe, New York, for
a month of advanced training. Two of the guys in my basic training didn't make
it because they had been fired by their manager in the field.

Towards the end of that year, once training had wrapped up, I was very excited
about moving my family from Kansas City to Sacramento. I had been away from home
off and on for over six months and was ready for the next phase of our lives to
begin.

### Leaving Kansas City

The hardest part for me when I was transferred by Burroughs Wellcome to the West
Coast was being separated from my brothers. I have missed them a lot over the
last thirty plus years.

My brothers and I have always enjoyed each other's company and, to this day, I
always look forward to visiting with them. We like to give each other a hard
time and I'm sure this is annoying to people around us, but this kidding around
is probably one of the reasons that we have stayed so close.

Both of my brothers followed in my footsteps; joining the Navy and attending
night school at Rockhurst College after their discharge.

### Sacramento 1961

I remember my dad's concern when I bought a home in Sacramento. He worried that
I was taking a big risk by committing to such a high monthly paymentâ€”$135 for a
30-year loan, which represented 30% of my $450 monthly salary at the time.

Today in 1998, it is still very common to spend 30% of your income on housing.
This reminds me that everything is relative, and I'm sure my grandchildren will
someday wonder how Grandpa Gadd managed to make it on "such a small salary" at
Burroughs Wellcome. I hope and pray that they will all be as blessed as I have
been.

I enjoyed being a representative in Sacramento because I got the chance to work
with an older, more experienced BW & Co. representative by the name of Andy
Boothe. He taught me so much about pharmaceutical sales and his rapport with his
doctors and pharmacists was amazing. I aspired to be just like him. Andy later
became my district manager.

In 1964, Andy was the man who recommended me to be promoted to a field trainer.
Between 1962 and 1967, I was the top producing sales rep in the district in deal
sales. My friend, Dale Sharrah, and I were number one in wholesale dollar sales.

As a reward for my performance, I was promoted again to Field Supervisor
in 1968. Not long after that, in 1969, I was promoted to District Sales Manager
for the Bay Area territory, which also included Hawaii. About a year after
becoming manager, I promoted Dale Sharrah to Senior Sales Representative in
Hawaii.

### Pleasanton 1969

Upon finishing my probation, and in conjunction with my promotion to District
Sales Manager, we moved to Pleasanton, a much smaller town about 90 miles
southwest of Sacramento. After just a few months, it seemed Mike, Cathy, Patty,
and Rebecca had adapted to the area and the new schools.

### AVHS Booster Club President

Several years later, after sending multiple kids to the local high school, I was
elected president of the Amador Valley High School Athletic Booster Club. This
position was a lot of hard work due to the booster club having gone downhill for
several years before I accepted the challenge.

I made sure that I had a good board of directors with key people in all
positions. Our mission was to raise money for the athletic program which covered
all sports. We also gave several college scholarships to deserving athletes.

The principal, athletic director, and coaches would attend our meetings to stay
informed. After three years, I stepped down and the new president and his board
continued the program. Today, the AVHS Booster Club is still an outstanding
organization.

### Losing my Dad

Unlike most brickmasons of his era, my dad didn't drink alcohol. I would
estimate that more than 90% of the brickmasons I knew would go to the tavern
after work. When I started laying brick, I only met a few men who didn't drink,
and that was usually for religious reasons.

Even though he avoided alcohol, dad was hooked on cigarettes. He started smoking
at age 13, soon after his father was killed and he had to go to work to help
support his family. This habit would eventually kill him.

Dad developed emphysema and died on October 16th, 1975, at age 65, after
suffering for several years. He is buried at Mission South Cemetery in San
Antonio, Texas, where he lived for the last fifteen years of his life.

Because my dad was so proud that he didn't drink alcohol, I chose never to drink
either. On the other hand, I never smoked because I witnessed what tobacco did
to himâ€”it was such a destructive and filthy habit.
